# churn-dashboard
## dashboard to visualize and predict customer churn
Customer Churn is when customers stop using a business’s product or service and switch to products or services offered by the business’s competitors. This is a challenging issue for many businesses since it costs more to acquire new customers than to retain existing customers. This is because acquiring new customers requires the business to convince people to select their service over the existing competitors, while existing customers have already made their decision and no such convincing is necessary. Therefore, it is useful for businesses to analyze customer churn and find ways to reduce it. 
Customer churn is a prominent problem in the telecommunication industry due to the low switching costs and the abundance of alternative service providers. The telecommunication industry has access to a large amount of customer data compared to many other industries. This data can be used to derive massive insights relevant to customer churn and measures can be taken to reduce it.
This project develops a web-based interactive dashboard for a given dataset for Chatterbox Telco Pvt Ltd in the Banana Republic to derive valuable insights from customer data to make decisions to reduce customer churn. Interactive dashboards provide real-time data visualizations in a manner that’s easy for stakeholders to comprehend and make decisions.
In the approach to be followed, a machine learning pipeline was created to accurately predict the customer churn. First the data was cleaned to remove erroneous and duplicate values since they will interfere with the proper analysis of data. Next, data was manipulated and analyzed. Thereafter, different machine learning models were used to predict the customer churn. The model with the highest accuracy was then be chosen using different evaluation metrics. Power BI was then used to derive insights from the data and produce the interactive dashboard containing the analytics most useful for the telecommunication company to make decisions.
